#separator:tab
#html:true
#tags column:8
The Musi and Bhima are tributaries of the river ...............	Brahmaputra	Mahanadi	Krishna	Kaveri	3	The Musi and Bhima are tributaries of the Krishna River, making option 3 the correct answer. The Brahmaputra, Mahanadi, and Kaveri do not have these rivers as tributaries, thus they are incorrect options.	Geography GK Prelims-1
Sundari, a well known species of trees, is found in:	himalayan mountains	tropical deciduous forests	mangrove forests	tropical rainforests	3	Sundari trees are specifically adapted to grow in mangrove forests, typically in coastal areas. They thrive in saline environments, which is characteristic of mangroves. The other options are incorrect because Himalayan mountains and tropical rainforests do not provide the saline conditions necessary for Sundari, and while tropical deciduous forests contain diverse tree species, they do not include Sundari.	Geography GK Prelims-1
Which of the following is mined in the Badampahar mines of Odisha?	Dolomite	Azurite	Hematite	Bauxite	3	Hematite is mined in the Badampahar mines of Odisha, which are known for iron ore extraction. Dolomite, azurite, and bauxite are not primarily associated with this location.	Geography GK Prelims-1
Name the pass in Uttarakhand which is used by pilgrims to Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra.	Khardung La	Pensi La	Banihal Pass	Lipu Lekh	4	The correct answer is Lipu Lekh, as it is the designated pass in Uttarakhand used by pilgrims to access the Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra. Khardung La and Pensi La are located in Ladakh and Zanskar respectively, and Banihal Pass is in Jammu and Kashmir, none of which are relevant to the yatra in Uttarakhand.	Geography GK Prelims-2
Which of the following Biosphere Reserves was the first to be established by the Government of India?	Sundarbans Biosphere Reserve	Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve	Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve	Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve	2	The correct answer is the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve, as it was the first Biosphere Reserve established in India in 1986. The other options, while significant, were established later, making them incorrect as the first.	Geography GK Prelims-2
Baglihar Dam is constructed on which river?	Chenab	Sutlej	Indus	Ravi	1	The Baglihar Dam is constructed on the Chenab River. This is the correct answer because the dam is specifically located in the Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir, India, utilizing the Chenab River's water for hydroelectric power generation. The other options are incorrect as the Sutlej, Indus, and Ravi rivers do not host the Baglihar Dam.	Geography GK Prelims-3
In which of the following states, is the Nanda Devi peak located?	Jammu and Kashmir	Sikkim	Assam	Uttarakhand	4	The Nanda Devi peak is located in Uttarakhand, which is home to the Nanda Devi National Park. Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, and Assam do not have this peak.	Geography GK Prelims-3
‘Mithun’, a cattle breed is found in ______.	Tamilnadu	Arunachal Pradesh	Maharashtra	Kerala	2	Mithun, a cattle breed, is native to Arunachal Pradesh, where it is traditionally herded by local tribes. The other options are incorrect as Mithun is not found or primarily raised in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, or Kerala.	Geography GK Prelims-3
________, which connects Sikkim with Tibet, was closed after the Chinese aggression on India in 1962 but was reopened in 2006 as the governments of the two countries decided to enhance their trade through land routes.	Lanak La	Imis La	Pensi La	Nathu La	4	Nathu La is the correct answer because it is the mountain pass that connects Sikkim with Tibet, which was closed after the 1962 Sino-Indian war but reopened in 2006 to facilitate trade. Lanak La, Imis La, and Pensi La are incorrect as they either refer to different passes or are not historically associated with the closure and reopening linked to Sino-Indian relations.	Geography GK Prelims-4
Where is the Bandipur National Park located?	Gujarat	Sikkim	Karnataka	Kerala	3	Bandipur National Park is located in Karnataka, which is known for its wildlife and is part of the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve. Gujarat, Sikkim, and Kerala do not have Bandipur National Park.	Geography GK Prelims-4
